---
layout: post
title: HALnet v1
---

## Prologue

G'day to you all! Now is the time to present you my small college homelab. I call it HALnet and you will see why in just a moment. I will NOT only list all the goodies and boast about that shiny hardware, no, I will provide to you my whole homelab story and future plans!

## The Past

So I guess it all started three years ago when I bought a small Odroid XU4, attached two disks to it, installed OpenMediaVault and had my first fileserver. Well actually, it wasn't that easy! I was just 15 at that time and I was new to Linux and had this weird problem that I couldn't get more speed than 20MB/s on the two USB 3.0 disks. Very strange. After quite a long thread on the OMV forum suddenly one guy turned up and said that there is this weird bug, that if you had SMART scan enabled, the speeds would drop forever. The only countermeasure was to nuke it and start from scratch. This bug was only appearing with that specific hardware. However in the end it turned out great, you just shouldn't enable disk checks...

The system stored backups and all the files I wanted to be accessible on the network. It also had a small Plex server, but that little thingy was not powerful enough to do transcodes... It was already obvious that it wouldn't end here! Especially if you keep in mind that I had no RAID at that time.

**And then** I discovered [this subreddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/homelab/) a year ago. Well what should I say? I finally knew what real love looks like (... I hope my SO won't read this... :D)
I searched the wiki and went through so many posts so often, that it was clear, the addiction is real. I had to buy my first server!

I always loved computer hardware and had seen the server stuff as something to admire, but only to admire. It was somehow unreachable, as I thought that it would be tooo expensive. Well you taught me otherwise! Damn you! ;) I mostly looked on Ebay for good deals, as there are no real alternatives here in Germany for good deals.

The first "beast" to arrive at the front door was a Fujitsu RX100 S6. This is a small 1U server with a single processor and DDR3 RAM. I got it for 80€ and wanted to have it for testing and then as my pfsense router when I would move to a flat for college. I installed all the common hypervisors on it and tried them out one by one. In the end I decided to stick with XenServer. It was a difficult start, as I had to figure out how to present iso files to the system. In Proxmox and ESXi you just upload them, here I had to add storage repositories... First I had to undesrtand NFS shares... (I just used smb shares before). Then I had to understand how OpenMediaVault handled the NFS shares, which was just trial and error. And then I could finally add my first share into XenServer! And then it was easy, way easier than with the others, as I already had all the iso files in one folder. I didn't have to upload them one by one! Another thing I learned was that NFS shares are so much better than SMB shares! I only had problems with smb. NFS just works! I don't know why...

I had some fun with that server but quickly realized that I needed some server with real power for all those VMs. A Fujitsu RX300 S6 turned up at my doorstep. Nice 2U, dual socket server. But since that day I know what a jet engine must sound like... I fool thought, that 2U servers are quieter than 1U servers. Oh boy how wrong I was! I had some fun with it as well, but it was clear that it couldn't stay when I had to move to my flat. There I would need something quiet.

So my search continued... I was specifically looking for quiet servers. And my hunt was successful, I acquired a HP DL360 G6. The plan was to put all the services that needed to be always on, on the RX100 and that I had the DL360 as a server for all the other stuff.
Do you already see a problem? No?

What about a fileserver? Yes, the thing that brought me to this and that should have been upgraded initially, wasn't even thought of yet! Oh my!

But first I moved across the country to begin my next big adventure: college!
Call me crazy, but I specifically looked for a flat with two rooms. This way I could always close a door between me and my servers...

But back to fileservers. I was looking for something with 6+ 3,5" disks and it should be quiet as well! My eyes fell on the Dell T610. It has 8 drive bays and should serve me good for the next couple of years. It is quieter than the Dell R710. Sadly I paid way too much for this machine, but these are hard to find here and I really wanted one! (Now I have 8x 450GB 15K SAS disks here, which I don't need. So if anybody can put them to good use, feel free to PM me, it will be a steal for any fellow homelabber) The first thing I relalized is that this machine is by far the heaviest machine I have ever encountered! OS plan for that machine was unRaid, it should be easy for once!

When setting up my internet connection I changed my plans. I had too many services that were always on. So I moved all the VMs which I would need often enough to the HP. But then I needed another server for heavy workloads and testing! Quick Fix: I bought a Dell R610. I didn't go the HP route there, as noise wasn't too much of a problem with that server, as it would be off most of the time. And the Dell build quality and design is just sooo much better! (You should have realized by now that I am a little crazy...) In return I sold the two Fujitsu servers.
The next purchases included a switch and an AP, which brings us to:

## The Current State of the Lab

I will list the current hardware with the VMs running on it here first. Photos can be found [here](https://imgur.com/a/SfEwv)

**ISP Router** - o2 Homebox6640
* This thing gets the internet connection up. There is no other device connected to it other than my pfsense box. WiFi is turned off. I couldn't remove it as I would need a dedicated modem then... o2 uses the Telekom line and the technology used there doesn't allow pppoe passthrough...

**HAL9000** - Mikrotik CSS326 Switch
* This is my main switch. I chose it because of the two SFP+ ports. It works great out of the box. I didn't do much to it, other than rear mounting it ;) Networking is not primary concern. You can also see why my Lab is called HALnet ;)

**GENiE** - Ubiquiti Unifi AP AC Lite

**TARS** - HP DL360 G6 - 2x L5630 / 32GB RAM / 2x 500GB SATA / Xenserver 7.2
* My main server, which is always on. I use every core on it and RAM is "half full" so no real worry here. The following VMs are running on it:
* v-pfsense: My pfSense router for DHCP (10.10.10.0 subnet) and OpenVPN. Nothing much to it. I have it in a basic configuration and back that config up regularly. It gets the WAN from ISP router and the LAN goes into the switch. I have a dedicated network card for that in the DL360. This VM turns on automatically after the server has been turned on.
* v-pihole: My ad-Blocker and DNS server. It took some time to get it up and running with DNS , as some sites were not accessible at first. This VM turns on automatically after pfsense is up and running.
* v-ipam: My phpIPAM Installation for keeping track of the IP addresses.
* v-bookstack: My small internal wiki. This was by far the easiest installation! One command and it was up and running. Right now it only houses one book with homelab information. If anybody is interested I will elaborate on structuring that book with chapters and pages.
* v-scan: future scan server. I will still have to figure out how to configure it correctly.
* v-firefly: Installation of Firefly III, my personal money management solution. I had some trouble setting it up at first, but the second installation went smoothly.
* v-guacamole: My remote desktop solution. I guess you all know it. But why are there so few good tutorials on it out there? Most unofficial stuff of it is outdated and you need to be a Linux pro if you want to follow their official documentation... In the end I followed the commands of an installation script one by one and got it working... Setting up the remote sessions was a whole nother story... I guess a guide will follow...
* v-unifi: My Unifi Controller for the AP. What can I say? I guess if you only use Ubiquiti it is great stuff, but if you only use one product you will have a hard time getting it integrated... I had this weird problem, that the AP would hand out IP addresses on its own... Now it's working, but I have no idea what I did...
* v-glados: A Ubuntu Server installation I can connect to and do Linux stuff on. Always handy to have. Can be reset at every point in time, there is nothing important on there.
* v-hydra: My Windows Server Test Box. For the times when you need a Windows Server (Not very often). I don't use AD as I only have two devices (Laptop and PC), it would be too much work for that and I would have "problems" when I am using my Laptop somewhere else... If you haven't realized it yet, this is my first Homelab rule for Production: **KISS** (Keep it short and simple). Everything that needs to be available on a day to day basis needs to be rock solid! I try to minimize points of failures in that system! The tinkering happens on the following box:

**CASE** - Dell R610 - 2x L5640 / 32GB RAM / 2x 146GB 15K SAS / PERC 6i / XenServer 7.2
* This server is mostly turned off. It is being used when I need much compute power for Blender renders or Video rendering. Or when I just want to test something.
* v-winxp: Windows XP VM for reasons of nostalgia. Additionally you might come across an old program, which only runs on XP. You never know...
* v-transcode: Windows 7 VM with all cores and 24GB of RAM allocated to it. This i being used for heavy workloads. Needlees to say all other VMs are being shutdown when this VM has to turn on.
* v-sabre: Ubuntu VM for heavy workloads. The things from the Windows 7 VM apply here as well.
* v-genisys: GameServer VM. This is currently not set up yet. I am planning on using PTERODACTYL for TF2 and Minecraft Servers.
* v-icarus: Download VM for stuff like couchpotato. I haven't set this up yet, as I am not really sure about the legality of this download stuff and need to do some preparations on hiding this first!...
* v-???: Any other VM I might need for some time.

**DEEPTHOUGHT** - Dell T610 - 1x L5630 - 16GB RAM - 4TB parity / 2x3TB storage / 275GB cache - Dell H200 in IT mode - unRaid 6.3.5

* This is the glorious fileserver. I got the H200 from the R610 and switched the PERC from the T610 to the R610. unRaid is installed on a 32GB CruzerFit. I have some plugins installed to see some system information. I have two primary shares for data and media files and then I also have shares for ISO files, backups and VMs which are running on the XenServer machines. This server is also running constantly.
* v-lucy: This is technically not a VM but a preconfigured Plex container for unRaid. I however did change something special! As I want to have each service on its own IP address I created a very special docker subnet (10.10.10.93/28 or something) and put that container on there. This way Plex is accessible via 10.10.10.92.
* v-xo: My XenOrchestra VM for managing the XenServers. I changed the CSS to look cleaner in the Community Edition, a guide can be found [here](https://redd.it/6vjg6g). I also enabled Backups for all VMs to a share on the T610. I have the XO VM running on the T610, so that it is independent from the XenServers themselves, if that makes sense...

**HUXLEY** - Odroid XU4 - Exynos 5422 / 2GB RAM / 32GB Flash - Ubuntu Server 16.04 LTS
* This little guy has been my fileserver for quite a few years. Now all the disks are disconnected and it awaits its function as a "dashboard server". I am planning to run a little webserver on there with some stats and links to all the other services.

**other Devices** include my PC, Thinkpad, smartphone and a Chromecast Audio.

My "rack" is an IKEA Hejne shelf. 2U servers fit perfectly between two boards and a 5U case fits perfectly, if you leave one board out!

The Network is all in the 10.10.10.0/24 subnet. I create static reservations for all devices!  The first IPs from 1-49 are being used for management interfaces (IPMI etc) and my "consumer"/wifi devices. The range from 50-69 is for TARS, 70-89 for CASE and 90-100 for DEEPTHOUGHT. The DHCP range is from 200 to 254. I have not yet seen the need for VLANs (keep it simple you know...). When I start with Homeautomation, I will probably create a VLAN for the IoT devices.

## What I learned so far
The iDRAC express module can be very difficult to upgrade. I bricked one module in the process.
Change hostnames with care. And if you do, do it in all places.
A CPU swap can be enough to get all alarm lights blinking.
Docker is a nice thing, but in my opinion it is not mature yet.
CoreOS is evil. It works against common sense. (Well I don't like it, I just don't get warm with it) It is nice that Docker and Docker Compose are preinstalled, but then you just hit a barrier, because the OS won't let you do something they way you want to... For some this might be good, for me it sounds too much like a cult.
Don't open a Dell server when it is running. It will scream at you!
The most important thing: Getting familiar with Linux and configuring stuff!
So many other things I can't think of right now!

## The Future

So like any other homelabber I also have some future plans. I will begin with those I try to do next.
Get my "dashboard server" up and running. I don't know how I will do that yet, as I want a combination of Grafana and Organizr...
Get a second SAS cable for my R610, so that thing doesn't throw any errors... (When I swapped the SAS cards between the R610 and the T610 the cables went with the cards. But sadly one PERC6i SAS cable from the T610 is too short for the R610) Has any homelabber in Europe got a spare cable???
Sell the 8x 450GB SAS drives
Set up some kind of reverse proxy, so that every service is accessible by its ip/domain and you won't need to enter a specific port or directory... Just for the looks and of course the OCD...
Get the gameserver up and running
Get the download server up and running
10GB Networking + updating my main rig and getting a thinkpad for kubuntu linux
Get a dedicated backup server for fully automated backups of everything.
Way in the future: 3 more servers and openstack... (Yes I am a little masochist...)

## Epilogue

Only now have I realized what a Hydra of text I have created here. I am sorry if you read through all of this, nobody forced you to ;)

But speaking of Hydra, did you decipher my naming scheme? I first just wanted to name the dedicated machines after AIs/PCs/robots from fictional novels and films but then it kind of got out of hand... TARS is the more active machine and CASE is normally quiet (as it is shut down), this mirrors the actual "characters" from Interstellar. Look it up ;) DEEPTHOUGHT holds all the information and HAL9000 decides how to communicate. There are two machines that break this logic. One is my Chromecast which is called Cray-I, I called it this way because nowadays a machine this small is almost as powerful as the first supercomputer Cray. I think this is funny. The other one is icarus, it is named after the person from greek mythology, he tried to reach the cloud(s) but fell down... But what about Hydra? Guess in the comments ;)

I know I should really rethink my naming convention, but I kind of got used to it and like it that way.
